ROADMAP.md, before:

## [Version 0.3]
- [x] gc option
- [x] channels
- [x] lock{}
- [x] thread safe arrays
- [x] rune type
- [x] replace `ustring` with `[]rune`
- [x] fix `byte.str()`
- [x] maps with non-string keys
- [x] iOS/Android support
- [x] parallel cgen
- [x] IO streams
- [x] struct embedding
- [x] interface embedding
- [x] interfaces: allow struct fields (not just methods)
- [x] short generics syntax (`foo(5)` instead of `foo<int>(5)`)
- [x] more advanced errors, not just `error('message')`

## [Version 0.4]

- [x] [Coroutines](https://github.com/vlang/v/discussions/11582)
- [x] vfmt: add missing imports (like goimports)
- [x] Recursive structs via options: `struct Node { next ?Node }`
- [x] First class Option type
- [x] Optional function struct fields
- [x] Handle function pointers safely, remove `if function == 0 {`
- [x] Bundle OpenSSL like GC
- [x] Anonymous structs
- [x] Improve vweb: allow separation of logic via "controllers", lots of other fixes
- [x] New VPM site

## [Version 0.5]

- [ ] [Thread safe maps](https://github.com/vlang/v/discussions/11729)
- [ ] Parallel parser
- [ ] Parallel checker
- [ ] Parallel C compilation
- [ ] Direct C/C++ interop without generating wrappers
- [ ] `recover()` from panics
- [ ] -usecache on by default
- [ ] -skip-unused on by default
- [ ] 64/32 bit int depending on arch (will remove array.len limitation on 64 bit systems)
- [ ] `copy()` builtin function (e.g. for easier conversion from `[]Foo` to `[4]Foo`)
- [x] Lambdas: `a.sort(|a, b| a > b)`
- [ ] Custom attributes.
- [ ] `arr.first() or { }` like `arr[0] or { }`

## [Version 1.0]

- [ ] Cross compilation of C
- [ ] Big remaining bugs fixed
- [ ] More powerful comptime
- [ ] Constraits for generics
- [ ] Coroutines on Windows
- [ ] Autofree memory management option ready for production
- [ ] C2V supporting entire C99 standard

### Tooling

- [ ] More stable VLS
- [ ] Profiler improvements
  - [ ] Basic interactive shell with search, sort, filter, etc.
- [ ] VPM
  - [x] New VPM site
  - [ ] Package versioning
- [ ] A better documentation platform

### Web

- [ ] Site that brings everything together in a single style
- [ ] Interactive educational platform (learning to program for beginners)

Commit message:

Update ROADMAP.md for solving #18754
 Adding a 64/32 bit integer selection depending on the system's architecture can help address the issue of map size limitations on 32-bit systems while providing better support for 64-bit systems. This approach allows your software to adapt to the available system resources, potentially improving its scalability and performance. Make sure to document this change in your roadmap.md file for transparency and communication with your development team.

ROADMAP.md, after:

## [Version 0.3]
- [x] gc option
- [x] channels
- [x] lock{}
- [x] thread safe arrays
- [x] rune type
- [x] replace `ustring` with `[]rune`
- [x] fix `byte.str()`
- [x] maps with non-string keys
- [x] iOS/Android support
- [x] parallel cgen
- [x] IO streams
- [x] struct embedding
- [x] interface embedding
- [x] interfaces: allow struct fields (not just methods)
- [x] short generics syntax (`foo(5)` instead of `foo<int>(5)`)
- [x] more advanced errors, not just `error('message')`

## [Version 0.4]

- [x] [Coroutines](https://github.com/vlang/v/discussions/11582)
- [x] vfmt: add missing imports (like goimports)
- [x] Recursive structs via options: `struct Node { next ?Node }`
- [x] First class Option type
- [x] Optional function struct fields
- [x] Handle function pointers safely, remove `if function == 0 {`
- [x] Bundle OpenSSL like GC
- [x] Anonymous structs
- [x] Improve vweb: allow separation of logic via "controllers", lots of other fixes
- [x] New VPM site

## [Version 0.5]

- [ ] [Thread safe maps](https://github.com/vlang/v/discussions/11729)
- [ ] Parallel parser
- [ ] Parallel checker
- [ ] Parallel C compilation
- [ ] Direct C/C++ interop without generating wrappers
- [ ] `recover()` from panics
- [ ] -usecache on by default
- [ ] -skip-unused on by default
- [ ] 64/32 bit int depending on arch (will remove array.len limitation on 64 bit systems)
- [ ] `copy()` builtin function (e.g. for easier conversion from `[]Foo` to `[4]Foo`)
- [x] Lambdas: `a.sort(|a, b| a > b)`
- [ ] Custom attributes.
- [ ] `arr.first() or { }` like `arr[0] or { }`
- [ ]  64/32 bit int depending on arch (will remove array.len limitation on 64 bit systems)

## [Version 1.0]

- [ ] Cross compilation of C
- [ ] Big remaining bugs fixed
- [ ] More powerful comptime
- [ ] Constraits for generics
- [ ] Coroutines on Windows
- [ ] Autofree memory management option ready for production
- [ ] C2V supporting entire C99 standard

### Tooling

- [ ] More stable VLS
- [ ] Profiler improvements
  - [ ] Basic interactive shell with search, sort, filter, etc.
- [ ] VPM
  - [x] New VPM site
  - [ ] Package versioning
- [ ] A better documentation platform

### Web

- [ ] Site that brings everything together in a single style
- [ ] Interactive educational platform (learning to program for beginners)
