vlib/html/README.md, before:

# V HTML

A HTML parser made in V

## Usage

If description below isn't enought, see test files

### Parser

Responsible for read HTML in full strings or splited string and returns all Tag objets of it HTML or return a DocumentObjectModel, that will try to find how the HTML Tree is.

#### split_parse(data string)
This functions is the main function called by parse method to fragment parse your HTML

#### parse_html(data string, is_file bool)
This function is called passing a filename or a complete html data string to it

### add_code_tag(name string)
This function is used to add a tag for the parser ignore it's content. For example, if you have an html or XML with a custom tag, like `<script>`, using this function, like `add_code_tag('script')` will make all `script` tags content be jumped, so you still have its content, but will not confuse the parser with it's `>` or `<`

### finalize()
When using **split_parse** method, you must call this function to ends the parse completely

### get_tags() []Tag_ptr
This functions returns a array with all tags and it's content

### get_dom() DocumentObjectModel
Returns the DocumentObjectModel for current parsed tags

### WARNING
If you want to reuse parser object to parse another HTML, call `initialize_all()` function first

### DocumentObjectModel

A DOM object that will make easier to access some tags and search it

#### get_by_attribute_value(name string, value string) []Tag_ptr
This function retuns a Tag array with all tags in document that have a attribute with given name and given value

#### get_by_tag(name string) []Tag_ptr
This function retuns a Tag array with all tags in document that have a name with the given value

#### get_by_attribute(name string) []Tag_ptr
This function retuns a Tag array with all tags in document that have a attribute with given name

#### get_root() Tag_ptr
This function returns the root Tag

#### get_all_tags() []Tag_ptr
This function returns all important tags, removing close tags

### Tag

An object that holds tags information, such as `name`, `attributes`, `children`

#### get_children() []Tag_ptr
Returns all children as an array

#### get_parent() &Tag
Returns the parent of current tag

### get_name() string
Returns tag name

### get_content() string
Returns tag content

### get_attributes() map[string]string
Returns all attributes and it value

## Some questions that can appear

### Q: Why in parser have a `builder_str() string` method that returns only the lexeme string?
    
A: Because in early stages of the project, strings.Builder are used, but for some bug existing somewhere, it was necessary to use string directly. Later, it's planned to use strings.Builder again

### Q: Why have a `compare_string(a string, b string) bool` method?

A: For some reason when using != and == in strings directly, it not working. So, this method is a workaround

### Q: Will be something like `XPath`?

A: Like XPath yes. Exactly equal to it, no.

## Roadmap
- [x] Parser
  - [x] `<!-- Comments -->` detection
  - [x] `Open Generic tags` detection
  - [x] `Close Generic tags` detection
  - [x] `verify string` detection
  - [x] `tag attributes` detection
  - [x] `attributes values` detection
  - [x] `tag text` (on tag it is declared as content, maybe change for text in the future)
  - [x] `text file for parse` support (open local files for parsing)
  - [x] `open_code` verification
- [x] DocumentObjectModel
  - [x] push elements that have a close tag into stack
  - [x] remove elements from stack
  - [x] ~~create a new document root if have some syntax error (deleted)~~
  - [x] search tags in `DOM` by attributes
  - [x] search tags in `DOM` by tag type
  - [x] finish dom test

## License
[GPL3](LICENSE)

Commit message:

html: parser: Improvement in tags case
Now in parser, instead all strings in builder call `to_lower()`, it is only called when lexeme is a attribute or tag name

Tag:
Added `text()` method to tag object, now is more ease to get all contents

Improved `Tag.str()` method, now parser tell to Tag if it close in it's declaration or need a close_tag

vlib/html/README.md, after:

# V HTML

A HTML parser made in V

## Usage

If description below isn't enought, see test files

### Parser

Responsible for read HTML in full strings or splited string and returns all Tag objets of it HTML or return a DocumentObjectModel, that will try to find how the HTML Tree is.

#### split_parse(data string)
This functions is the main function called by parse method to fragment parse your HTML

#### parse_html(data string, is_file bool)
This function is called passing a filename or a complete html data string to it

### add_code_tag(name string)
This function is used to add a tag for the parser ignore it's content. For example, if you have an html or XML with a custom tag, like `<script>`, using this function, like `add_code_tag('script')` will make all `script` tags content be jumped, so you still have its content, but will not confuse the parser with it's `>` or `<`

### finalize()
When using **split_parse** method, you must call this function to ends the parse completely

### get_tags() []Tag_ptr
This functions returns a array with all tags and it's content

### get_dom() DocumentObjectModel
Returns the DocumentObjectModel for current parsed tags

### WARNING
If you want to reuse parser object to parse another HTML, call `initialize_all()` function first

### DocumentObjectModel

A DOM object that will make easier to access some tags and search it

#### get_by_attribute_value(name string, value string) []Tag_ptr
This function retuns a Tag array with all tags in document that have a attribute with given name and given value

#### get_by_tag(name string) []Tag_ptr
This function retuns a Tag array with all tags in document that have a name with the given value

#### get_by_attribute(name string) []Tag_ptr
This function retuns a Tag array with all tags in document that have a attribute with given name

#### get_root() Tag_ptr
This function returns the root Tag

#### get_all_tags() []Tag_ptr
This function returns all important tags, removing close tags

### Tag

An object that holds tags information, such as `name`, `attributes`, `children`

#### get_children() []Tag_ptr
Returns all children as an array

#### get_parent() &Tag
Returns the parent of current tag

### get_name() string
Returns tag name

### get_content() string
Returns tag content

### get_attributes() map[string]string
Returns all attributes and it value

### text() string
Returns the content of the tag and all tags inside it. Also, any `<br>` tag will be converted into `\n`

## Some questions that can appear

### Q: Why in parser have a `builder_str() string` method that returns only the lexeme string?
    
A: Because in early stages of the project, strings.Builder are used, but for some bug existing somewhere, it was necessary to use string directly. Later, it's planned to use strings.Builder again

### Q: Why have a `compare_string(a string, b string) bool` method?

A: For some reason when using != and == in strings directly, it not working. So, this method is a workaround

### Q: Will be something like `XPath`?

A: Like XPath yes. Exactly equal to it, no.

## Roadmap
- [x] Parser
  - [x] `<!-- Comments -->` detection
  - [x] `Open Generic tags` detection
  - [x] `Close Generic tags` detection
  - [x] `verify string` detection
  - [x] `tag attributes` detection
  - [x] `attributes values` detection
  - [x] `tag text` (on tag it is declared as content, maybe change for text in the future)
  - [x] `text file for parse` support (open local files for parsing)
  - [x] `open_code` verification
- [x] DocumentObjectModel
  - [x] push elements that have a close tag into stack
  - [x] remove elements from stack
  - [x] ~~create a new document root if have some syntax error (deleted)~~
  - [x] search tags in `DOM` by attributes
  - [x] search tags in `DOM` by tag type
  - [x] finish dom test

## License
[GPL3](LICENSE)
